README.md, before:

# 🚀 n8n-as-code

![Tests](https://github.com/EtienneLescot/n8n-as-code/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)
![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.1.0-blue)

**n8n-as-code** is an ecosystem designed to manage your n8n workflows as code. It transforms your automations into synchronized local JSON files, enabling version control (Git), AI-assisted editing, and seamless integration into VS Code.

---

## ⚡ Quick Start

Ready to sync your workflows in under 2 minutes?

1.  **Installation**:
    ```bash
    npm install && npm run build
    npm link
    ```

    > **Note**: The first `npm run build` will automatically clone the n8n repository (`.n8n-cache`) to generate the node schema. This may take a few minutes.
    > **Note**: The `npm link` command creates a global link to the CLI, allowing you to use `n8n-as-code` directly from any terminal.
2.  **Configuration**:
    ```bash
    n8n-as-code init
    ```
    > **Note**: The assistant will guide you through configuring your n8n instance and will securely store your API key off-project.
3.  **Initial Sync**: Download your existing workflows:
    ```bash
    n8n-as-code pull
    ```
4.  **Open VS Code**: Install the local extension (`packages/vscode-extension`) and enjoy automatic synchronization and AI assistance.

---

## 🎨 VS Code Extension: The n8n Cockpit

The extension transforms VS Code into a true IDE for n8n.

-   **Activity Bar Icon**: Direct access to all your workflows from the left side panel.
-   **Visual Status Indicators**: Color-coded icons show sync status at a glance:
    - ✅ Green sync icon for workflows in sync
    - 📝 Orange pencil for local modifications
    - ☁️ Orange cloud for remote modifications
    - 🔴 Red alert for conflicts
    - 🗑️ Grey trash for deletions
-   **Embedded Board**: Open your workflows in an integrated web view for immediate visual feedback.
-   **Split View**: Edit the JSON on the left while keeping the n8n canvas on the right.
-   **Push on Save**: Any local modification is instantly sent to n8n.
-   **Automatic AI Context**: Upon opening, the extension automatically generates AI assistance (`AGENTS.md`, snippets, schemas).
-   **🛡️ Persistent Conflict Resolution**: Workflows in conflict or deleted states become expandable tree items with action buttons:
    - For conflicts: Show Diff, Keep Local, Keep Remote
    - For deletions: Confirm Deletion, Restore File

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

The CLI uses an interactive and secure configuration system via the `init` command.

### Configuration Files
- **`n8n-as-code.json`**: Contains project settings (Host, folders, etc.). This file is created at the root and can be shared via Git.
- **Global Storage**: Your API keys are linked to the host and stored locally on your machine, never committed.
- **`n8n-as-code-instance.json`**: Manages your instance's unique identifier to isolate files from different environments.

---

## 🛠 CLI Commands (`@n8n-as-code/cli`)

For those who prefer the terminal or automation. Commands are accessible via `n8n-as-code`.

-   **`init`**: Configures your n8n instance and local project.
-   **`list`**: Displays all workflows with their sync status in a color-coded table.
-   **`pull`**: Retrieves all workflows from n8n (with interactive conflict resolution).
-   **`push`**: Sends new local files to n8n (with interactive conflict resolution).
-   **`start`**: Real-time bi-directional synchronization mode with live monitoring (replaces `watch`).
-   **`init-ai`**: Generates context for your AI agent.

Example usage:
```bash
n8n-as-code init
n8n-as-code list          # View all workflow statuses
n8n-as-code pull          # Download workflows
n8n-as-code push          # Upload workflows
n8n-as-code start         # Start watch mode with auto-sync
n8n-as-code start --manual # Start with interactive prompts
```

---

## 🤖 AI Context & Superpowers

We inject specific context to make your AI (Cursor, Windsurf, Copilot) an expert in n8n:

-   📄 **`AGENTS.md`**: System instructions on n8n structure and best practices.
-   🛡️ **`n8n-schema.json`**: Strict validation of your JSONs to avoid structural errors.
-   🧩 **Snippets**: Library of predefined nodes (Webhook, Code, HTTP...) for faster coding.

### 🎭 Claude Agent Skill

Transform Claude AI into an n8n expert with our official **Claude Agent Skill**!

The `@n8n-as-code/claude-skill` package provides a [Claude Agent Skill](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/agents-and-tools/agent-skills) that enables Claude to:

- ✅ Search for n8n nodes using exact documentation
- ✅ Retrieve node schemas to prevent parameter hallucination
- ✅ Generate valid workflow JSON following best practices

**Quick Start:**

```bash
# Build the skill package
cd packages/claude-skill
npm run build

# Install to Claude.ai (upload ZIP) or Claude Code (copy folder)
```

📖 [Usage Guide](https://etiennelescot.github.io/n8n-as-code/docs/usage/claude-skill) | [Contribution Guide](https://etiennelescot.github.io/n8n-as-code/docs/contribution/claude-skill)

---

## 🧪 Tests & Quality

The project includes a suite of unit and integration tests to guarantee synchronization reliability.

### Run Tests
```bash
# Unit and integration tests
npm test
```

*Note: Integration tests require a `.env.test` file at the root with `N8N_HOST` and `N8N_API_KEY`.*

---

## 🛠️ Local Development and Testing

Debug mode (F5) from `packages/vscode-extension`.

Or use the following command at the root to compile, package, and install the extension locally in your main VS Code instance:

```bash
npm run extension:dev
npm run extension:install
```

---

## 🚀 Release & Distribution

This project uses [Changesets](https://github.com/changesets/changesets) for automated versioning and publishing.

### For Developers: Creating a Release

1.  **Document your changes**:
    ```bash
    npm run changeset
    ```
    Select affected packages and version bump type (patch/minor/major), then provide a changelog message. Commit the generated `.changeset/*.md` file with your code.

2.  **Automatic PR Creation**:
    When merged to `main`, CI automatically creates a **"Version Packages"** Pull Request that:
    - Updates all `package.json` versions
    - Synchronizes internal dependencies
    - Generates `CHANGELOG.md` entries
    
3.  **Merge & Publish**:
    When the "Version Packages" PR is merged, CI automatically:
    - Publishes NPM packages (`@n8n-as-code/core`, `@n8n-as-code/cli`, `@n8n-as-code/agent-cli`)
    - Creates Git tags and GitHub Releases for each published package
    - Publishes VS Code extension to the Marketplace
    
> **Note**: Each package gets its own GitHub Release with independent versioning (e.g., `@n8n-as-code/core@0.3.1`, `@n8n-as-code/cli@0.3.2`). The VS Code extension is marked as `private: true` to prevent NPM publication, but Changeset manages its versioning and dependencies.

---

## 🏗 Architecture (Monorepo)

-   **`packages/core`**: The logical core with **3-way merge architecture**:
    - **Watcher**: Observes file system and API changes (state observation)
    - **SyncEngine**: Performs synchronization operations (state mutation)
    - **ResolutionManager**: Handles conflict and deletion resolution
    - Uses base-local-remote comparison for deterministic conflict detection
-   **`packages/cli`**: The main command-line interface for manual workflow management.
-   **`packages/agent-cli`**: Specialized tools for AI Agents (Cursor, Cline), providing search and schema retrieval capabilities.
-   **`packages/claude-skill`**: Official Claude Agent Skill package for Anthropic's Claude AI.
-   **`packages/vscode-extension`**: The VS Code plugin for seamless real-time synchronization and AI assistance.

---

## 🤝 Contribution

Contributions are welcome!

1.  **Fork** the project.
2.  **Clone** your fork locally.
3.  **Create a branch** for your feature (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`).
4.  **Ensure tests pass** (`npm test`).
5.  **Commit** your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`).
6.  **Push** to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`).
7.  **Open a Pull Request**.

---

## 📄 License
MIT

Commit message:

Enhances AI context generation with comprehensive node schema validation
Improves AI context generation by:
- Adding detailed node schema validation with specific error/warning categorization
- Implementing comprehensive node parameter validation against schema
- Adding connection validation between nodes
- Creating a unified knowledge search system
- Enhancing documentation provider with advanced search capabilities
- Updating AGENTS.md with precise research protocols and validation steps
- Removing deprecated schema files in favor of enriched node information

README.md, after:

# 🚀 n8n-as-code

![Tests](https://github.com/EtienneLescot/n8n-as-code/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)
![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.1.0-blue)

**n8n-as-code** is an ecosystem designed to manage your n8n workflows as code. It transforms your automations into synchronized local JSON files, enabling version control (Git), AI-assisted editing, and seamless integration into VS Code.

---

## ⚡ Quick Start

Ready to sync your workflows in under 2 minutes?

1.  **Installation**:
    ```bash
    npm install && npm run build
    npm link
    ```

    > **Note**: The first `npm run build` will automatically clone the n8n repository (`.n8n-cache`) to generate the node schema. This may take a few minutes.
    > **Note**: The `npm link` command creates a global link to the CLI, allowing you to use `n8n-as-code` directly from any terminal.
2.  **Configuration**:
    ```bash
    n8n-as-code init
    ```
    > **Note**: The assistant will guide you through configuring your n8n instance and will securely store your API key off-project.
3.  **Initial Sync**: Download your existing workflows:
    ```bash
    n8n-as-code pull
    ```
4.  **Open VS Code**: Install the local extension (`packages/vscode-extension`) and enjoy automatic synchronization and AI assistance.

---

## 🎨 VS Code Extension: The n8n Cockpit

The extension transforms VS Code into a true IDE for n8n.

-   **Activity Bar Icon**: Direct access to all your workflows from the left side panel.
-   **Visual Status Indicators**: Color-coded icons show sync status at a glance:
    - ✅ Green sync icon for workflows in sync
    - 📝 Orange pencil for local modifications
    - ☁️ Orange cloud for remote modifications
    - 🔴 Red alert for conflicts
    - 🗑️ Grey trash for deletions
-   **Embedded Board**: Open your workflows in an integrated web view for immediate visual feedback.
-   **Split View**: Edit the JSON on the left while keeping the n8n canvas on the right.
-   **Push on Save**: Any local modification is instantly sent to n8n.
-   **Automatic AI Context**: Upon opening, the extension automatically generates AI assistance (`AGENTS.md`, snippets, schemas).
-   **🛡️ Persistent Conflict Resolution**: Workflows in conflict or deleted states become expandable tree items with action buttons:
    - For conflicts: Show Diff, Keep Local, Keep Remote
    - For deletions: Confirm Deletion, Restore File

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

The CLI uses an interactive and secure configuration system via the `init` command.

### Configuration Files
- **`n8n-as-code.json`**: Contains project settings (Host, folders, etc.). This file is created at the root and can be shared via Git.
- **Global Storage**: Your API keys are linked to the host and stored locally on your machine, never committed.
- **`n8n-as-code-instance.json`**: Manages your instance's unique identifier to isolate files from different environments.

---

## 🛠 CLI Commands (`@n8n-as-code/cli`)

For those who prefer the terminal or automation. Commands are accessible via `n8n-as-code`.

-   **`init`**: Configures your n8n instance and local project.
-   **`list`**: Displays all workflows with their sync status in a color-coded table.
-   **`pull`**: Retrieves all workflows from n8n (with interactive conflict resolution).
-   **`push`**: Sends new local files to n8n (with interactive conflict resolution).
-   **`start`**: Real-time bi-directional synchronization mode with live monitoring (replaces `watch`).
-   **`init-ai`**: Generates context for your AI agent.

Example usage:
```bash
n8n-as-code init
n8n-as-code list          # View all workflow statuses
n8n-as-code pull          # Download workflows
n8n-as-code push          # Upload workflows
n8n-as-code start         # Start watch mode with auto-sync
n8n-as-code start --manual # Start with interactive prompts
```

---

## 🤖 AI Context & Superpowers

We inject specific context to make your AI (Cursor, Windsurf, Copilot) an expert in n8n:

-   📄 **`AGENTS.md`**: System instructions on n8n structure and best practices.
-   🛡️ **`@n8n-as-code/agent-cli`**: CLI tools providing accurate node schemas and validation from n8n's source code.
-   🧩 **Snippets**: Library of predefined nodes (Webhook, Code, HTTP...) for faster coding.

### 🎭 Claude Agent Skill

Transform Claude AI into an n8n expert with our official **Claude Agent Skill**!

The `@n8n-as-code/claude-skill` package provides a [Claude Agent Skill](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/agents-and-tools/agent-skills) that enables Claude to:

- ✅ Search for n8n nodes using exact documentation
- ✅ Retrieve node schemas to prevent parameter hallucination
- ✅ Generate valid workflow JSON following best practices

**Quick Start:**

```bash
# Build the skill package
cd packages/claude-skill
npm run build

# Install to Claude.ai (upload ZIP) or Claude Code (copy folder)
```

📖 [Usage Guide](https://etiennelescot.github.io/n8n-as-code/docs/usage/claude-skill) | [Contribution Guide](https://etiennelescot.github.io/n8n-as-code/docs/contribution/claude-skill)

---

## 🧪 Tests & Quality

The project includes a suite of unit and integration tests to guarantee synchronization reliability.

### Run Tests
```bash
# Unit and integration tests
npm test
```

*Note: Integration tests require a `.env.test` file at the root with `N8N_HOST` and `N8N_API_KEY`.*

---

## 🛠️ Local Development and Testing

Debug mode (F5) from `packages/vscode-extension`.

Or use the following command at the root to compile, package, and install the extension locally in your main VS Code instance:

```bash
npm run extension:dev
npm run extension:install
```

---

## 🚀 Release & Distribution

This project uses [Changesets](https://github.com/changesets/changesets) for automated versioning and publishing.

### For Developers: Creating a Release

1.  **Document your changes**:
    ```bash
    npm run changeset
    ```
    Select affected packages and version bump type (patch/minor/major), then provide a changelog message. Commit the generated `.changeset/*.md` file with your code.

2.  **Automatic PR Creation**:
    When merged to `main`, CI automatically creates a **"Version Packages"** Pull Request that:
    - Updates all `package.json` versions
    - Synchronizes internal dependencies
    - Generates `CHANGELOG.md` entries
    
3.  **Merge & Publish**:
    When the "Version Packages" PR is merged, CI automatically:
    - Publishes NPM packages (`@n8n-as-code/core`, `@n8n-as-code/cli`, `@n8n-as-code/agent-cli`)
    - Creates Git tags and GitHub Releases for each published package
    - Publishes VS Code extension to the Marketplace
    
> **Note**: Each package gets its own GitHub Release with independent versioning (e.g., `@n8n-as-code/core@0.3.1`, `@n8n-as-code/cli@0.3.2`). The VS Code extension is marked as `private: true` to prevent NPM publication, but Changeset manages its versioning and dependencies.

---

## 🏗 Architecture (Monorepo)

-   **`packages/core`**: The logical core with **3-way merge architecture**:
    - **Watcher**: Observes file system and API changes (state observation)
    - **SyncEngine**: Performs synchronization operations (state mutation)
    - **ResolutionManager**: Handles conflict and deletion resolution
    - Uses base-local-remote comparison for deterministic conflict detection
-   **`packages/cli`**: The main command-line interface for manual workflow management.
-   **`packages/agent-cli`**: Specialized tools for AI Agents (Cursor, Cline), providing search and schema retrieval capabilities.
-   **`packages/claude-skill`**: Official Claude Agent Skill package for Anthropic's Claude AI.
-   **`packages/vscode-extension`**: The VS Code plugin for seamless real-time synchronization and AI assistance.

---

## 🤝 Contribution

Contributions are welcome!

1.  **Fork** the project.
2.  **Clone** your fork locally.
3.  **Create a branch** for your feature (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`).
4.  **Ensure tests pass** (`npm test`).
5.  **Commit** your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`).
6.  **Push** to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`).
7.  **Open a Pull Request**.

---

## 📄 License
MIT
